README.md, before:

# ESpages
A compilation of (defunct) Eastern Sun wiki contents

## Procedure
1. Save web pages from Wayback Machine (<https://web.archive.org>)
2. Copy the html page to `./raw`
3. Remove headers, footers and navigation column
4. Make sure that the content is not inside `<table>` and there are no extra `<td>` tags
5. Run pandoc: `pandoc raw/$PAGENAME.html -f html -t markdown -s -o markdown/$NEWNAME.md`
  - `$PAGENAME`: Whatever name the downloaded/copied page has
  - `$NEWNAME`: If old name has spaces or is super long, give it a more sensible name.
    Otherwise you can reuse the old name
6. Clean up
  - Remove extra fenced divs (blocks starting with `:::`)
    - Add where needed
  - Hyperlinks
    - Use internal links when applicable
    - Remove web.archive.org where applicable
      - References to original ES Wiki should use archived links
      - Same for other currently broken websites, if there is a working archive site
    - Add a note to broken links
  - Inline styles (use classes instead, e.g. `[1]{style="color:blue"}` --> `[1]{.note}`)
    - Remember to add the definition to css file!
    - These are called _bracketed spans_
  - Line breaks in odd places
    - Prefer semantic line breaks within paragraphs
  - Tables
    - Justification
    - Empty rows
  - Images
7. Run pandoc again: `pandoc markdown/$PAGENAME.md -f markdown -t html -s -o html/$PAGENAME.html` (Add css file(s) with `-c css/style.css`)
  - For combining two or more .md files into one .html file, create a .txt file
    in `includes` and list the .md files **in the order they should be included**.
    See `includes/amazon.txt` for example.
  - Use following command to run pandoc:
    `pandoc -s $(cat includes/$NAME.txt) -f markdown -t html5 -o html/$NAME.html`
8. If satisfied, add the command to `build.sh` file
  - Remember to include css files, if any!

Commit message:

Update readme with introduction and copyright details

README.md, after:

# ESpages
A compilation of (defunct) Eastern Sun wiki contents.

**Please note this is a work-in-progress repository,**
and there will be inconsistencies!
For example, only `index.html` uses custom styling from `css/style.css`,
whereas converted markdown files use Pandoc default css template.

The Wayback Machine has a (relatively) working snapshot of the Eastern Sun wiki from 12 Nov 2020. You can access the main page from [this link](https://web.archive.org/web/20201112024131/http://miyoshino.la.coocan.jp/eswiki/). 

## Procedure
*AKA how I've compiled these pages*

1. Save web pages from Wayback Machine (<https://web.archive.org>)
2. Copy the html page to `./raw`
3. Remove headers, footers and navigation column
4. Make sure that the content is not inside `<table>` and there are no extra `<td>` tags
5. Run pandoc: `pandoc raw/$PAGENAME.html -f html -t markdown -s -o markdown/$NEWNAME.md`
  - `$PAGENAME`: Whatever name the downloaded/copied page has
  - `$NEWNAME`: If old name has spaces or is super long, give it a more sensible name.
    Otherwise you can reuse the old name
6. Clean up
  - Remove extra fenced divs (blocks starting with `:::`)
    - Add where needed
  - Hyperlinks
    - Use internal links when applicable
    - Remove web.archive.org where applicable
      - References to original ES Wiki should use archived links
      - Same for other currently broken websites, if there is a working archive site
    - Add a note to broken links
  - Inline styles (use classes instead, e.g. `[1]{style="color:blue"}` --> `[1]{.note}`)
    - Remember to add the definition to css file!
    - These are called _bracketed spans_
  - Line breaks in odd places
    - Prefer semantic line breaks within paragraphs
  - Tables
    - Justification
    - Empty rows
  - Images
7. Run pandoc again: `pandoc markdown/$PAGENAME.md -f markdown -t html -s -o html/$PAGENAME.html` (Add css file(s) with `-c css/style.css`)
  - For combining two or more .md files into one .html file, create a .txt file
    in `includes` and list the .md files **in the order they should be included**.
    See `includes/amazon.txt` for example.
  - Use following command to run pandoc:
    `pandoc -s $(cat includes/$NAME.txt) -f markdown -t html5 -o html/$NAME.html`
8. If satisfied, add the command to `build.sh` file
  - Remember to include css files, if any!

## Copyright details
The content is lifted from Eastern Sun Wiki pages, as detailed in [Procedure][].
The relevant html parts are included in `/raw` folder and whatever images I've
reused are in `/img`. *The copyright status for the wiki content is unknown,*
*most likely held by original wiki contributors.*

The markdown files are slightly edited to fix any formatting and styling issues
arising from the conversion. Also the PukiWiki related code (e.g. edit-links) is
mostly removed. Hyperlinks to other Eastern Sun wikipages are converted to relative
links to other pages in this repository or to the [Eastern Sun Database](http://esdb.d2se.org).

The raw html pages may contain remnants of code from [Wayback Machine](https://web.archive.org),
which is copyright by the [Internet Archive](https://archive.org).

The index page and scripts found in `/scripts`, `/css`, and `/js` folders are original work by me,
unless otherwise noted. As that work is rather trivial, you can use it freely.
(For non-original work please follow their license or usage permissions.)
